3. Data science processes

Individual activity: Understanding data science processes
Mark each answer below as True or False.

Q1. Data exploration is:
a way to help me to understand data before building predictions.
the process of finding a dataset.
the final step in the data science process.
ANSWER: TRUE,FALSE,FALSE

Q2. Inference is:
a way of guaranteeing the integrity of a dataset.
how we collect information.
a way of characterising the certainty of patterns we might find in data.

TRUE,FALSE,TRUE
ANSWER: FALSE,FALSE,TRUE

Q3. Prediction is:
the practice of using data to predict future outcomes and trends.
a method that guarantees the correctness of assertions we make using data.
a method for helping us make decisions based on data.

TRUE,FALSE,FALSE
ANSWER: TRUE,FALSE,TRUE


4. Data exploration: An example
Individual activity: Doing data science
Question: What are the main activities in data science? [Choose any applicable]

1.Filtering out irrelevant data
ANSWER:
Although not discussed, filtering out data is part of an inherent data preparation/cleaning stage.

2.Preliminary exploration of new data
ANSWER:This is exploring data, like we did in the Little Women example.

3.Counting words
ANSWER:Not specifically a data science process, 
but it might be one of the ways we use statistics (summing) to analyse text data.

4.Making scientific guesses based on data
ANSWER: This is making predictions.

5.Coding
ANSWER: Not specific to data science, 
however to do things computationally we usually have to write some code when we do data science.

6.Determining how reliable are patterns observed in data
ANSWER: This is inference about data.

7. Data imputation
Individual activity: Data Science and AI
Question: Mark each of the following statements as True or False.


Q1. AI can only be used to solve domain problems.
ANSWER: FALSE

Q2. De-noising can only be done with machine learning.
ANSWER:FALSE
Q3.Feature engineering is usually a manual, human task.
ANSWER: TRUE

Q4.Machine learning can be used to aid in developing other machine learning models.
ANSWER: TRUE

Q5.Predictive machine learning models can help deal with missing data.
ANSWER: TRUE

Q6.Machine learning can always automate data preprocessing.
ANSWER: FALSE

Pause and reflect
Throughout this unit we have discussed how data science both lends itself to helping develop 
AI and how AI techniques can be used to process large amounts of data.


But why do you think AI techniques are good for processing large datasets? (perhaps you don't think so!)
Are there any possible problems with making predictions based on data?

Machine Learning, NLP (Natural Lanaguage Processing),Automation and Robotics,Machine Vision
are good AI techniques for processing large datasets. The 

Possible outcomes such as interference, overfitting, measuring the efficiency, missing data (incomplete data),
different estimations,outliners within these models. Varies from different sources can depend on the quality 
and format. 



















