2. Early ideas: Logic and language
Individual activity: Logic and language


Assume I have a mathematical language capable of expressing a proof to a statement I want to prove. 
I check all the possible proofs up to a given length and I 
haven't found a proof. Could I consider the statement to be disproven?

Answer:
My Answer:
No, because we can not accept as accurate based on the proof or statement the number of times. Assume 
there is a finite amount of them. This number can't be divided by any of the finite number I assumed to exist, and 
it is not one.

Actual Answer:
No, Since I have not exhaustively checked all possible proofs by 
limiting the search to proofs up to a given length,
one cannot say with certainty that the statement is disproven.


Next, assume I am to design a mathematical language from the bottom up, and started off from
 the following basic letters or expressions. 
There exist x satisfying ϕ (the Greek letter phi), where x stands for a notion of a variable, 
like an integer, and ϕ stands for a notion of a statement, 
like an equation;
it is not true that ϕ hold (in other words "not ϕ" is true).

Which of the following assumptions is redundant, that is concluded from these two assumptions?

No x satisfies ϕ
All x satisfies ϕ

Answer: 
The logic behind may be somewhat confusing. All x satisfies ϕ is the redundant equation. 
This is because if ϕ cannot hold true (in other words is always false)
based on our second assumption, 
then no x can makeϕ true. 
Therefore the assumption All x satisfies ϕ does not apply given the two stated assumptions.


Logic and language
4. Propositional logic


Get the pen and paper to write out a table in terms of true (T) or false (F) arguments.

6. 
Individual activity: Gödel's incompleteness

Let's focus on the framework of a mathematical language we started to define. 
Now attempt to extend it so it can handle multiplications as well.
 Let's say that for all a and b, there is also an integer of a×b. 
Could you show an obvious statement about multiplication that doesn't conclude 
from this like the ones we have seen in the case of addition?

Clearly, addition and multiplication is associative, 
that it doesn't matter where we put the brackets around then: 
(a+b)+c=a+b+c∨(ab)c=abc. Is this the case when it comes to division?

My Answer: No, because it entirely depends on the order you choose using BODMAS. In this case 
the order is entirely strict. 

Once you have attempted the questions, post your answers in the Logic and language forum. 
Your tutor will post their answers before the next unit begins.


8. The Halting problem
Individual activity: The Halting problem?
Consider the following questions:

Could we find the proof of any mathematical statement in a given language if we were 
given a magical tool solving the halting problem?
Is this a rhetoric question? 
For example if were given a "magical tool" for instance we use software 
tools such as Python or R-studio software.
This can allows us to create our own rules and decisions whether we can compute mathematical 
computations to a certain degree or memory the computer can hold for the halting problem. 


Do you think that the problem of finding a proof in a language for a mathematical problem 
we know can be proven in said language is enumerable?

Depends, It is hard to decide whether or not if it is enumerable, 
if we set a certain/code or algorithm 
to a limit or not where we can compute every number or integer 
where we can escape or continue in an endless loop given 
yes if it complies or no respectively.

Knowing that the halting problem is undecidable, do you think that the problem 
of telling if a program has any inputs for which it halts for is decidable?

It is decidable when we can break the loop otherwise will be stuck in the 
loop if we can set a certain input based what were limiting on.   
(Not sure, if this is a general answer).

Is it possible that a problem is undecidable, however, both enumerable and co-enumerable?

*()
 

Once you have attempted the questions, share your answers in 
the Logic and language forum and discuss 
with your classmates and tutor.
Wait for the tutor to respond. 
























