2. Arriving at the current state of AI

Pause and reflect
What modern technologies, approaches or developments have contributed
to the renewed interest in and increased potential of AI?
-AI Workforce Augementation 
-Entertainment 
-Medicine
-Cybersecurity 
-Vital Tasks 
-Transportation

Can you think of any examples of AI applications in use today?
AI Workforce Augmentation: In the future, we'll see even more of our jobs being outsourced to AI. ...

Better Language Modeling Capability: 
Language modeling is the process that allows machines to understand and 
communicate with us in ways we understand. We can even use it to take natural 
human language and turn it into computer code that can run programs and applications.

Cybersecurity:
the state of being protected against the criminal or unauthorized use of electronic data, 
or the measures taken to achieve this.

The Metaverse:
A virtual-reality space in which users can interact with a computer-generated environment 
and other users.

Low-Code or No-Code AI:
types of visual software development environments that allow enterprise developers and 
citizen developers to drag and drop application components, 
connect them together and create mobile or web apps.

Data-Centric AI:
building AI systems with quality data — with a focus on ensuring that the data clearly 
conveys what the AI must learn.

Autonomous Cars:
A self-driving car, also known as an autonomous vehicle, autonomous car,
 driver-less car, or robotic car, is a car incorporating vehicular automation, 
that is, a ground vehicle that is capable of sensing its environment and moving safely 
with little or no human input.

Creative AI:
The simulation of creativity in machines.

3. Big Data
Individual activity: Big Data
Beyond the examples given in this unit, can you think of any other 
AI cases being used to generate value from big data? Write them down.

-Developing smarter products 
-Developing smarter services 
-Making business processes more intelligient 
-Automating repetitive or mundane tasks
-Automating manufacturing processes 

Reading from the Data protection in the age of big data 
What measures could be taken to safeguard people’s privacy given 
the amount of data collected on them?

There are some examples that can protect people's privacy are,
-Data discovery
-Data loss prevention (DLP)
-Storage with built-in data protection 
-Backup
-Snapshots
-Replication 
-Firewalls
-Authentication and authorization 
-Encryption 
-Data erasure 
-Disaster recovery 


5. AI and healthcare
Group activity: AI and decision makers
Consider the following question:

Do you believe that healthcare decisions can be turned over to an AI application, 
or should the final decisions about patient care always be made by humans?

Student Answer/Discussion:
When Considering Healthcare, Expert systems have recently been implemented to 
ease the work of doctors for basic consultation and more for patients. 
Diseases such as the common cold & fevers are things that can be caught by an 
AI system using algorithms and sensors to check the patient. 
However, I believe that the final decision about a patient should always 
be made by human doctors to reduce room for error as well as make sure 
the AI system algorithm results are correct. If the final decision is given by a 
system and it happens to be wrong, the patient would unknowingly think he has the 
wrong sickness and this would have drastic effects on the body, 
whereas this would not be the case with a Human Doctor's 
Conclusion based on the patient's symptoms & much more.

6. AI and automobiles
What do you view as being the main barriers to the uptake of autonomous vehicles?

Student Answer/Discussion:
The main barriers to the uptake of autonomous vehicles (AVs) I think are road infrastructure, safety and public confidence.
Starting with the first barrier, great infrastructure investments are required to make autonomous vehicles viable on the road. 
These vehicles might need a dedicated lane, well-marked roads, proper space parking, accessibility to electric charging stations,
 among other investments. There are countries more advanced than others in this type of infrastructure,
 however coming from Panama, I can mention that great investments are needed to make this possible in Latin America. 
In addition, it is also necessary to improve the public transportation system in these countries to make the inclusion of AVs more adequate.
Regarding the second barrier, there are two aspects about safety that I could mention. First, there are the safety concerns of equipment
failure and concerns for the level of certainty of sensors. Secondly, there is currently a lack of laws, standardizations, certifications, and safety norms. 
The creation of these can be a long and complicated process. This causes uncertainty for both manufacturers and the public, 
resulting in slow progress in these technological innovations.

Finally, the lack of public acceptance is a major barrier at present, as many people are not ready to trust 100% in this type of technology.
However, with time and with the correct demonstration of the safety of these vehicles, acceptance may increase,
especially in the younger generations.

Do you believe that greater use of autonomous vehicles would lead to an increase, 
a decrease, or no significant change in private vehicle ownership rates?
 I believe that in the short and medium term, once this type of vehicle become more accessible, 
there would be just a shift from traditional vehicles to autonomous vehicles, so it would not represent 
a great change in the percentage of car ownership. 
However, in the long term,  AVs could popularize and increase different mobility services such as public cars, 
car sharing, car subscriptions, decreasing the ownership of cars, mostly in big and urban cities.


8. Machine translation
Pause and reflect
Read the article The Statistics Behind Google Translate.
Consider whether or not Google's approach to machine translation makes sense. 

Think about the methods introduced in the previous units of the course so far. 
Do you think any of those methods could do a better job? 

Overall, it depends on the large volume of words inputted into the dictornary as well as some rules. 
I think the methods from the previous units such as Agents systems and BMP are relevant and appliable 
in this case since Google and many other 
translation sites relies on Statistical Modelling and Bayesian algorithm reply both on their translation and probabiltity
respectively described that their quality of raw data becomes the key to the success of any 
translation model. To say that Google's approach to machine translation of this course makes sense thus far.

9. Future of AI
Pause and reflect
Are humans better at certain jobs than computers?

Computers are good at things like repetitive tasks, parallel processing, and data manipulation. 
Humans are good at things like communication, creativity, and empathy.


So, will machines replace humans for many jobs? The answer is unequivocal. 
However, I assert that with every job taken over by machines, there will be an equal number of opportunities 
for jobs to be done by people. Some of these human jobs will be of the creative type.
Should computers replace humans, if they can do a better job than humans.
They have better memories, so they can be fed a large amount of information, 
and can tap into all of it almost instantaneously.


Read the 2020 Nature article The role of artificial intelligence in achieving the Sustainable Development Goals.
Individual activity: Sustainable AI economy
Can you think of any applications of AI that contribute to meeting sustainable development goals?

A clear example of AI's contribution to sustainability is traffic management. Applying Artificial Intelligence 
in urban mobility allows traffic jams to be predicted and alternative routes to be suggested.


Do you believe AI will contribute positively or negatively to sustainable development? Why do you think this?
AI has the potential to accelerate global efforts to protect the environment and conserve resources by detecting 
energy emission reductions, CO2 removal, helping develop greener 
transportation networks, monitoring deforestation, and predicting extreme weather conditions.


10. Ethics of AI
How will AI affect the rights of people around the world?
AI can also work against equality, the prohibition of discrimination, and access to other fundamental rights, 
such as political and personal freedom. AI is already predicting marketing trends based on collected user data,
 which many people find unethical. One example often cited is algorithmic bias discrimination.

Are we able to discern the difference between a sentient being and one programmed to mimic sentience?
If were talking about AI, AI can fake their emotions but whether they can feel those emotions is another matter.
 We call a creature sentient if it can perceive, reason and think, and also if it might suffer or feel pain

What rights do you think could or should be given to an AI robot?
Because of this legal fiction, they can be granted legal rights. Such rights protect the interests of human beings.
Robots might be granted legal rights for the same reason, but this would mean that we have to regard them as legal persons.
However, the idea of legal robot rights also has met with controversy


How similar is switching off an advanced AI (e.g. an Artificial General Intelligence, AGI) to passing a death sentence?
As with Facebook, AI can cause serious harm in the world before reaching “general intelligence” 
or “competency” and yet it is already impossible to turn off. The AI that we use today is exceptionally useful for many different tasks. 
That doesn't mean it is always positive – it is a tool which, if used maliciously or incorrectly,
can have negative consequences. 
Despite this, it currently seems to be unlikely to become an existential threat to humanity



























