5.2. Activity Systems
Individual activity: Expert Systems quiz
 Indicate which of the statements below are True and False.

Expert systems aim to capture all human knowledge. F (Correct)
Although theoretically an expert systems could capture all human knowledge,
 this is clearly infeasible and as such expert systems do not aim to do that.
 
Expert systems are used to solve specific problems. T (Correct)
Expert systems are designed for specific problem domains,
and therefore are usually designed to aid in solving specific problems.

Expert systems capture expert human knowledge. T (Correct)

To solve problems, expert systems are built on human expert knowledge captured in a computer system

Expert systems are not amenable to explaining the reasoning to the answer they provide.T (Incorrect)
Expert systems are suited to providing explanations of their reasoning. Knowledge is
represented as a database of facts 
(in the knowledge base) and an inference engine determines the logical relationships between 
facts, and thus the reasoning.

Expert systems are better than machine learning methods.F(Correct)
Different AI methods have their own respective advantages and disadvantages
 depending on many different factors such as the end-user's requirements,
 computational resources, type of data available, and the problem scope.


5.3. Representing knowledge
Group activity: Capturing knowledge
Consider the following questions:

How might you design a knowledge acquisition process for an expert 
system to mitigate some of the disadvantages?

Definition(s)
acquisition: An asset or object brought or obtained, typically by a library or museum. 
mitigate: make (something bad) less serve, serious, or painful.

By definition a knowledge acquisition focuses on the extraction of knowledge of the problem 
domain from experts and other reference source. During expert system development, this process 
continues until enough problem-solving knowledge is extracted to permit the proposed system to achieve
expert performance reducing some of the disadvantages. 


What could you do to make such a process easier and faster for 
capturing knowledge from human experts?
-Increase efficency from the inference engine by
-Reducing less human experts at the time and maybe set a time limit to reduce bandwidth,
 set time limit to help increase the performance and speed from the inference engine.


5. Backward chaining
Individual activity: Forward chaining
Use forward chaining to determine a patient's diagnosis, given the following rules and known facts (working memory).

R1 = "IF the patient has a deep cough AND we suspect an infection, THEN the patient has pneumonia"

R2 = "IF the patient's temperature is above 37.8 celsius, THEN the patient has a fever"

R3 = "IF the patient has been sick for more than two weeks, THEN we suspect an infection"

wm = "the patient's temperature is 39.4 celsius, the patient has been sick for more than 
one month, the patient has violent coughing fits"

See Notepad! My diary.


Expert systems
6. Advantages and disadvantages of expert systems

Individual activity: An expert system for playing Blackjack
Consider the following rules that define a simplified version of the card game Blackjack (also known as 21). There are one player and a dealer. The gameplay proceeds as follows:

The player is dealt two face-up cards. The dealer is dealt one face-up card.
The player may ask to be dealt another card ('hit') as many times as they wish. If the sum of their cards exceeds 21, they lose the round immediately.
The dealer then deals additional cards to himself until either:
The sum of the dealer's cards exceeds 21, in which case the player wins the round, or
The sum of the dealer's cards is greater than or equal to 17. If the player's total is greater than - the dealer's, the player wins. Otherwise, the dealer wins (even in case of a tie).
When calculating the sum of cards, Jack, Queen, and King count for 10. Aces can count as 1 or 11 (when referring to a player's "total" above, 
we mean the largest total that can be made without exceeding 21. So e.g. A+8 = 19, A+8+8 = 17).
Your tasks:

1.Develop your own set of rules to maximise your win ratio against the Blackjack dealer in this computer simulation.
2.Draw a diagram to illustrate how your solution traverses the decision tree by backward chaining. Include a written description of what your diagram shows.

See 1. from the discussion board!

7. Summary
Pause and reflect
While expert systems are proven to be useful to aiding human decision making, 
can they be universally applied to all kinds of problems?

Depends, because they can be applicable on a daliy basis such as computers,software,technology and 
engineering reports and projects 
in various work settings. To ensure workers to fully understand that there is a fixed system in place or producure
they must follow to create better solutions or decisions themselves. This can be done similarly done for 
Agents and other systems applied in Unit 3.

Consider what was discussed in Unit 3 on Systems and agents.
Can we program an agent with rules and expect it to perform well and behave rationally?

Going back from Unit 3, For example in computer systems. We have to input the computer what to do 
for example 5+5 we give a simple task the computer complies giving the result 10. In other cases, 
if we giving a complicated task for example the Halting problem from Unit 4,If H+ determines that this software would run forever, it just returns "No" and compiles. 
This is clearly a contradiction as it didn't run forever; therefore, it must return the conclusion that the algorithm complies. 
But if it would conclude that H+ will halt, then H+ itself would enter an infinite loop. Again, this is a contradiction. Therefore, an algorithm like H+ can't exist, 
and if H exists, we must be able to build H+, so therefore H can't exist either. Therefore we should not 
always guarantee that the Halting problem H+ would not perform well in which the computer can not behave 
rationally due the data memory or error program in the system.

Individual activity: Reflecting on expert systems

Did Davis' article foresee, without explicitly stating so, the possible problems that ultimately
lead to the AI winter of the late 1980s? 

Do you think Davis' criticisms of the state-of-the-art at the time were a fair assessment?





