2. What is Machine Learning?

Individual activity: Machine learning quiz
Question: Mark each of the following statements as True or False.

Q1.Expert systems are ML methods.
True
Answer: False

Q2.ML algorithms learn automatically from data.
True
Answer: True


Q3.ML methods are better than expert systems.
True
Answer:False
Q4.Learning from data means model parameters or rules are computed from examples.
False
Answer: True

Q5.Humans do not play in analysing data using ML methods.
False
Answer: True and False. 
Humans are always actively involved in the development of a model but not always 
directly involved in making decisions 
based a ML model's predictions.


4. Unsupervised learning
Individual activity: Machine learning terminology
The terminology used around ML can be confusing for newcomers and it is worth taking some time to dive 
deeper to gain an understanding of how ML and its constituent types are discussed.

First, watch Luv Aggarwal from IBM introducing machine learning and the different related terminology (9 minutes). 
Then you can read more from IBM about supervised learning and unsupervised learning.

Based on the video and readings, what do you think are the key differences between the learning types?
(See the NOTES)

Can you consider supervised learning better than unsupervised learning?
Since they both are necessarily required for machine learning, Supervised Learning focuses
on the Classification and Regression. Defined by their use of labelled datasets which can pinpoint 
better accuracy. Whilst Unsupervised Learning focuses on Clustering, Assoication and Dimensionality Reduction, 
these algorithms discover hidden patterns in unlabelled data. Overall, I would prefer Supervised 
Learning over Unsupervised Learning because I can work with the data that is easily been given rather than
given unknown and inaccurate data.


NOTES:

AI:
Machine Learning: Subset within AI
Deep Learning: Subset within AI, subset from Machine Learning

Focusing on Machine Learning:
Types of Machine Learning are Supervised Learning 
1. Classification 
-Customer Retention: Historical, 

2. Regression (Predictors and Response)
-Airlines

Unsupervised Learning
-Unlabelled: 
1. Clustering 
-Custlered Segmentation
-Purchase history 
-Social media, website activity 
-Geography 

2. Dimensional Reduction 

Reinforcement Learning
-Agent takes actions in an environment, we teach a system a certain task. 


5. Reinforcement Learning
Reinforcement learning is quite different in comparison to supervised/unsupervised learning 
in that it does not rely as much on a large amount of data.

How then is reinforcement learning a useful thing?
Reinforcement learning is a useful to find solutions to a problem by defining and maximising 
a reward. Which is the principal learning activity of a training program through pre- and post-session 
activities that reinforce key objectives. These reinforcement activities are equally as important
as the principal learning activity and help boost knowledge rentention, engage employees, and 
drive sustained behaviour changes.

Can you think back to earlier in the course to a type of AI system (Read from the recap)
that may benefit from this type of learning?
-Systems and Agents: An agent acts on its environment through its actuators​ 
based on what it perceives from its environment through its sensors. 

-Expert Systems:
Typical high-level architecture of an expert system. An expert system usually acquires 
knowledge from a human expert that is then stored in a kind of database called a knowledge base.
 Non-experts (user) interact with the expert system via a UI (User Interface) that queries an inference engine - a kind of search engine - that calculates the answer using the expert
 knowledge stored in the knowledge base, and returns the result to the user. 

6. Summary
Individual activity: Machine learning recap
Question: Mark each with the following statements as True or False
Q1.Regression and classification tasks are forms of supervised learning.
True
Answer:True

Q2.Reinforcement learning methods explore different actions maximising 
the reward of the ones that help to solve the problem.

True
Answer: True

Q3.In supervised learning, the target outcomes are not known.

False
Answer: False

Q4.In cluster analysis, the exact features according to which the data points 
should be sorted into clusters are known.
 
False
Answer: False

Q5.In machine learning, training and test datasets should share data elements.

False
Answer: True


Group activity: Applying machine learning
Consider the following questions:

Do you know of an application or task that uses ML?
Here are some examples,
-Image Recognition
-Speech Recognition
-Traffic prediction
-Product recommendations
-Self-driving cars
-Email Spam and Malware Filtering 
-Virtual Personal Assistant 
-Online Fraud Detection
-Stock Market trading 
-Medical Diagnosis
-Automatic Language Translation


In the media and on the Web, there is often news about applications that use ML methods.
 
Choose an application that you have recently heard about. Which type of learning do you think was used? 
Supervised, unsupervised, or reinforcement learning?
-Image Recognition uses Supervised Leaning (human-guided) and 
UnSupervised Learning (calculated by software) classification.  

What is a new area in which you would like to apply ML methods?
-Social Media, Google Translate (Image and Speech recogition)

Can you imagine which type of data you would need to apply it successfully?
The type of data that i would be imagine depends on their
-Engagement: Clicks,comments,shares etc.
-Reach
-Impressions and video views
-Follower count and growth over time
-Profile visits
-Brand sentiment 
-Social share of voice
-Demographic data: age, gender, location, language, bahviours,etc.

Which type of ML will be more useful for your problem?
Supervised Learning because it can create better accuracy with labelled and efficient data.














