Artifical Intelligence Oxford University Department for Continuing Education 
Week 1

At this point, we can see that, in a general form, intelligence is something that is a human quality, perhaps relating to the capacity to understand something; intelligence is something to be desired and of value. 
What, then, does this mean in relation to artificial intelligence (AI)?

For this AI can it be an avatar, can it be used as other way to duplicate clones of human species, 
do they nessarily share a higher capacity than a human being should behave or been controlled etc..


Individual activity: Who was Alan Turing?
Help us to distinctly know what is the difference between a strong AI from a weak AI. Able to 
experiment whether machines are better than the average person. 
In terms of their arthermic memory depends how much capacity 
it can store, we tend to forget some information daily but a computer (AI) does not.



Individual activity: Weak vs Strong AI quiz
Question 1. What is another term for Strong AI? [Choose one answer]
1. Explainable AI (XAI)
2. Artifical General Intelligence (AGI)
3. Big AI
4. Clean AI

Choosen: 2. Artifical General Intelligence (AGI)
Answer: 2. Artifical General Intelligence (AGI) (Correct)


Question 2. Which of the following statements is true? [Choose any applicable answers]
1.Strong AI is better at tasks than Weak AI.
2.Weak AI can pass the Turing Test. (x)
3.Strong AI is commonplace in everyday products.
4.Robots can use Weak AI to function efficiently.

Choosen: 1. and 3 
Answer: 2 and 4 (wrong)

Question 3.What characterises Weak AI? [Choose any applicable answers]
1.Weak AI is slower than Strong AI
2.Weak AI is good at solving specific problems
3.The Robot College Student Test is a test of Weak AI systems
4.A Weak AI system can only perform one specific task.

Choosen: 4.
Answer: 2,3 (Wrong)


Individual activity: Finding examples of AI
Which of the following might be exmaples of AI? [Choose all aplicable] 

1. Self-driving road vechicles 
2. Remote-controlled flying drones
3. Navigation devices (e.g. TomTom or Google Maps on smartphone)
4. Algorithmic trading 
5. Wearable activity trackers (e.g. FitBit)
6. Simulating crowds in a video game
7. Search engines 
8. Airplane autopilot 
9. Calculator 


Choosen: 1,3,5,6
Answer: 1,3,4,6 (3 out of 4 correct)


Group activity: What is artificial intelligence?
Consider the following questions:

Are humans more intelligent than computers?
If computers can learn (like humans), does that make them intelligent?
Post your thoughts on the What is intelligence? forum to discuss the questions with your classmates and tutor.


Pause and reflect
Suppose we revealed to you now that one of the users posting in the What is intelligence? forum is actually an artificial intelligence program and you were unwittingly taking part in an Imitation Game?

Have you noticed if any of the forum users exhibit hints of being an AI?
How would you know if you have been talking to an AI program?
Are there particular ways in which you can structure what you say in the forum to reveal the AI impostor?


